---
title: "NURSEs.xlsx"
date: 2025-05-25T14:42:44-05:00
# bookComments: false
# bookSearchExclude: false
---

By J.C. Subida, Northwestern University

In the ever-evolving world of research software engineering (RSE), collaboration and community are key to success. Recently, I had the opportunity to connect with my colleague, Luke Rasmussen, through USRSE’s Slack group. Both of us, working remotely, decided to meet via Zoom to discuss our shared vision for creating a vibrant RSE community at Northwestern University.

Our conversation was fueled by a common desire to empower and motivate each other as software engineers. We envisioned a space where siloed developers could connect, share ideas, and contribute to individual grants. This community would not only foster professional growth but also provide a supportive environment for all involved.

However, we also acknowledged the challenges that lay ahead. Time constraints, introvert tendencies, and the ongoing debate between virtual and in-person connections were just a few of the hurdles we anticipated. Additionally, understanding and aligning with others’ motivations would be crucial for the community’s success.

Despite these challenges, we decided to start small. Our first step was to create a spreadsheet of potential contacts who might be interested in joining our community. We affectionately refer to these individuals as Northwestern University Research Software Engineers, or NURSEs. Once we have compiled a sufficient list of emails, we plan to reach out to them and invite them to be part of this exciting initiative.

While we haven’t reached that stage yet, we believe that taking small, deliberate steps, even under constraints, is more productive than doing nothing. Our journey is just beginning, and we are eager to see how our community will grow and evolve. Stay tuned for more updates as we continue to build a strong network of research software engineers at Northwestern University.
